ALL RIGHT, WELCOME TO THE
WEDNESDAY SEPTEMBER 4TH REGULAR
MEETING OF THE AND OUR
REPLANNING COMMISSION FOR
DETAILED INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED MISS THATCHER, WILL
YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL
COMMISSIONER?
I I'M HERE COMMISSIONER WISE
HERE COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
HERE COMMISSIONER APRON'S HERE.
COMMISSIONER DISH HERE.
COMMISSIONER MILLS' HERE.
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE HERE.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS HERE.
COMMISSIONER NORTON HERE YOU
HAVE A QUORUM.
>> THANK YOU.
I MEAN I HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOTION BY
COMMISSIONER WISCH SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION SAY I AM
AND HE OPPOSED THE MOTION
CARRIES.
ALL RIGHT.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES OF THE AUGUST 20TH?
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR MINUTES MOVE
BY COMMISSIONER M. SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHETHER BE ANY
DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES
SEEING NONE ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY I BY
ANY OPPOSED SEEING NONE MOTION
CARRIES.
NEXT UP OUR REPORTS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS.
WE WILL ORIGINALLY START WITH
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
>> I AM VERY PLEASED TO
ANNOUNCE CHEERILY THAT OUR
FOURTH AND FINAL TSAY ONE
CORRIDOR PASSED LAST NIGHT
RESOUNDINGLY I CAN REMEMBER THE
LENGTH OF SOME OF THE MEETINGS
THAT WE HAD ON THE FIRST
CORRIDORS AND THE THIS IS LIKE
DONE NORMAL WHICH FEELS GOOD.
WE ALSO COUNCIL ALSO APPROVE
THE SUITE OF AMENDMENTS THAT
INCLUDED THE ELEVATOR OVERRUNS
ETC. AND WE'RE REALLY DELIGHTED
TO UNDERSTAND THAT WE WERE
RESPONDING TO CONCERNS ABOUT
WASTED HABITABLE SPACE AND
THERE WERE OTHER THINGS THAN
THAT ONE BUT NO DETAILS ARE
REALLY NECESSARY.
>> AND THEN A COUNCIL ALSO
APPROVED THE TWEEK THAT
ACCOMMODATED I A PARKING
STRUCTURE AND MADE IT WAS THE
KAPUTT PARKING STRUCTURE, ONE
THAT WE PASSED THAT MADE A LOT
OF SENSE.
IT WAS A GOOD TWEAK BUT I I
DON'T FULLY I'M NOT ABLE TO
FULLY STATE IT PERFECTLY.
BUT ANYWAY IT IT ESSENTIALLY IT
MADE AS YOU WELL KNOW IT MADE
ALLOWANCES FOR WHEN WE DO TAKE
ONE IN A PLACE LIKE EISENHOWER
THAT HAS A VERY LONG LOCKS AS
OPPOSED TO AND WE'RE TRYING TO
MIMIC DOWNTOWN IN A PLACE THAT
DOESN'T LOOK LIKE DOWNTOWN.
>> SO THAT ACTUALLY WOULD HAVE
BEEN A GREAT WAY TO PUT IT LAST
NIGHT BUT I FELT I DON'T
REMEMBER IF THERE WAS ANYTHING
ELSE ON FROM PLANNING LAST
NIGHT.
>> >> RIGHT, RIGHT.
>> RIGHT.
YES, I DID REMEMBER THAT.
I REMEMBER THAT ON MY DRIVE
OVER.
>> YES, WE IT WILL NOW BE THE
CASE THAT FIVE VOTES IS WHAT WE
NEED FOR AN APPROVAL.
THAT'S OUR NEW APPROVAL
THRESHOLD INSTEAD OF SIX.
AND SO I THINK THAT OBVIOUSLY
IT'S STILL A MAJORITY OF OUR
BODY AND IT WILL MAKE THINGS
EASY FOR US DURING THOSE
PERIODS WHEN MAYBE WE'RE AT A
POINT SHORT OR WHEN PEOPLE HAVE
FAMILY RESPONSIBILITIES OR JOB
RESPONSIBILITIES OR APPROPRIATE
RECUSALS.
>> SO THAT'S THAT.
>> OH YEAH ACTUALLY.
RIGHT.
I SHOULD TELL THIS THAT THE AND
THE RESOLUTION DID PASS TO SEND
HOME OCCUPATIONS BACK TO US TO
EXPLORE FURTHER FLEXIBILITY FOR
HOME OCCUPATIONS.
>> WE DID AS CHAIR MILLS MAY
REMEMBER WE DID A VERY
EXTENSIVE REVISION OF HOME
OCCUPATIONS THAT WAS VERY
THOUGHTFUL BUT THERE THERE THEY
WOULD LIKE US TO LOOK AT IT AND
THINK IF THERE'S ANYTHING MORE
YOU CAN DO TO MAKE IT POSSIBLE
FOR PEOPLE WHO HAVE HOME
OCCUPATIONS TO FURTHER ENLARGE
THEM WITHOUT HAVING TO GO OUT
AND BE A BRICK AND MORTAR
BUSINESS OR PERHAPS HAVE MORE
THAN ONE EMPLOYEE BUT EACH
EMPLOYEE WOULD ONLY BE HALF
TIME SO THERE WOULD ACTUALLY BE
TWO PEOPLE BUT YOU KNOW, ONE
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT SO YEAH,
SORRY THAT WAS A LITTLE BIT
LONGER THAN I MEANT BUT
ACTUALLY I THINK THERE WAS A
LOT OF WE CLEARED A LOT
OF BUSINESS PLANNING IT.
>> THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
LOBBYISM REPORTS WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS ARE INCLUDED AND
OH I'M SORRY.
YES.
YOU LIKE THE MANAGER.
YES PLEASE.
OH YES MAN IS THAT RIGHT YOU TO
JOIN US AT THE GREENBRIER FAIR
ON SEPTEMBER 20TH.
IT'S FROM FIVE EIGHT P.M. IF
YOU WOULD LIKE TO ENGAGE WITH
THE PUBLIC ON THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN OR JUST SEE WHAT'S GOING
ON THERE.
THE ONLY OTHER THING I HAVE TO
PRESENT IS THAT TODAY HOT OFF
THE PRESS WE RECEIVE THE CITY
THAN OUR OLD FOURTH WARD
HISTORIC DISTRICT SURVEY
REPORT.
WE OUGHT TO GET A GRANT FROM
THE STATE ATTORNEY'S OFFICE TO
DO THIS TO SURVEY THREE HUNDRED
PROPERTIES IN YOUR FOURTH WARD.
THERE'S A REPORT THAT GOES WITH
IT ABOUT THE HISTORY ETC.
OF THE SETTLEMENT.
THERE ARE THREE VOLUMES THIS
SIZE OF SURVEY FORMS ONE FOR
EVERY PROPERTY FOR WHICH IS
NORTH OF HURON STREET.
SO IF ANYONE'S INTERESTED THOSE
WILL BE ON THE CITY WEBSITE
TOMORROW ON THE PRESERVATION
PAGE YOUR INTEREST AND THAT
SORT OF THING.
>> WHAT'S UP, DREW?
THAT'S ALL I HAVE.
AWESOME.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
SORRY I'M REALIZING THAT C
ACTUALLY MET LAST WEEK AND I
DON'T KNOW IF MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT
DO YOU WANT TO GIVE UPDATE?
I CAN BECAUSE I JUST PULLED IT
UP THAT I WAS GOING TO TRY.
I COMPLETELY FORGOT TO BECAUSE
OF THE HOLIDAY I'M ALL CONFUSED
OR C MET LAST TUESDAY AND WE
TALKED ABOUT A SET OF ORDINA
REVISIONS THAT WILL BE COMING
TO US PROBABLY PRETTY SOON.
ONE IS RELATED THE DEFINITION
OF PUBLIC UTILITY.
ONE IS RELATED TO APPLICATION
FEE REIMBURSEMENTS AND
REDUCTION THE PROVISION
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
SO THAT'S IF A DEVELOPER IS
PROVIDING AFFORDABLE HOUSING
IT'S A PORTION OF THAT HOUSING
TO A HOLE THAT THE FEE WOULD BE
REIMBURSED FOR.
>> RIGHT NOW IT'S JUST HALF
YOUR ENTIRE FEES REGARDLESS
OF HOW MUCH AFFORDABLE HOUSING
YOU'RE GOING TO PROVIDE AN
ORDINANCE PROVISION RELATED TO
FENCE REGULATIONS AND
PROVISIONS RELATED TO ZONING
DISTRICTS IN WHICH CHILD CARE
CENTERS AND PRIVATE SCHOOLS ARE
ALLOWED SO I BELIEVE ALL
OF THOSE WILL BE COMING TO US
IN THE COMING WEEKS.
GOT IT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER
COMMITTEE LIAISON REPORTS?
OK, I'LL AND COMMUNICATIONS ARE
INCLUDED IN TODAY'S PACKAGE.
ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP THREE
MINUTES ON ISSUES NOT LISTED AS
A PUBLIC HEARING.
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON THE
PHONE OR USE THE RAISED HAND
FEATURE AND ZOOM FOR PHONE
ACCESS.
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND UNDER MEETING EIGHTY
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
WILL IDENTIFY CALLERS FOR THE
LAST THREE DIGITS OF THE PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME FOR ZOOMER
USERS AND YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENTS MONITOR
TURN TO SPEAK AND PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISES SO THAT WE
CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY AND FOR
ALL PARTICIPANTS PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
>> I BELIEVE THOSE ARE THE
PETITIONER SEEING NONE.
DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE CALLERS?
WE DO NOT.
OK, GIVE TWO MORE SECONDS BUT
THAT WILL CLOSE PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> WE'RE GOING TO GO ON TO
PUBLIC SCHEDULE FOR THE NEXT
BUSINESS MEETING AND WITH THAT
WE WILL TURN TO STAFF.
THERE ARE NO PUBLIC HEARINGS
SCHEDULED FOR TUESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 17TH AND THE PLANNING
MANAGER INTENDS TO CANCEL THAT
MEETING.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT TAKES US ACTUALLY TO
REGULAR BUSINESS SECTION A THIS
IS THE SEVEN HUNDRED SOUTH
STATE STREET SEIYU SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USED FOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
IT IS A PROPOSAL TO INCREASE
THE OCCUPANCY OF A FRATERNITY
FROM EIGHTEEN TO TWENTY EIGHT
EIGHTEEN TO TWENTY EIGHT BY
INTERNALLY DIVIDING ROOMS.
NO NEW FLOOR AREA IS PROPOSED
ZONED OUT TO BE TWO FAMILY
DWELLING AND I BELIEVE WE HAVE
THE PETITIONER HERE TO DO THE
PRESENTATION WITH DALE JARRETT
ARCHITECT AND RICK ARMBRUSTER.
THE OWNERS REPRESENTED WITH
THAT WE'LL START WITH PETITION
PRESENTATION.
>> THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING AND BUILD YOUR THE
ARCHITECTURE AND ARCHITECTURE.
THAT'S RICK BREWSTER BREWSTER.
>> THAT IS YEAH.
SO YOU KNOW WHAT WE'RE HERE FOR
WE'RE HERE TO GET THE APPROVAL
OF THE GO FROM EIGHTEEN
STUDENTS TWENTY EIGHT AND WE'RE
REALLY THE WAY WE'RE REALLY
ACCOMPLISHING THAT.
I'LL SHOW YOU ON THE FLOOR PLAN
THERE'S A LOT OF STUDY ROOMS
THE OLDER FRATERNITIES HAD LIKE
A GIGANTIC STUDY ROOMS AND THE
STUDENTS REALLY DON'T EVEN USE
STUDY ROOMS ANYMORE SO THERE'S
ALL THIS SPACE THAT BECOMES
VERY EASY TO INCREASE THE
AMOUNT OF STUDENTS INTERNALLY
AND I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S TIME
TO GET THE POWERPOINT GOING.
>> DO I DO I GET TO I START
THAT OR NO THERE GOES OH OK.
>> YEAH SO SO THERE'S A SITE
PLAN.
YEAH I'LL JUST GO THROUGH THE
POWERPOINT BE PART OF THE
PRESENTATION SITE PLAN.
THE BIGGEST CHALLENGE ON THIS
WAS REALLY WITH THE SOLID WASTE
MANAGEMENT REVISIONS WE HAD TO
MAKE BECAUSE BEFORE WE PRETTY
MUCH HAD A DUMPSTER SITTING
THERE AND JUST NOT ALLOWING THE
TRUCK TO GET THROUGH IN THE
CIRCULATION THIS IS HOW WE
ACCOMPLISHED IT WITH TWO
SEPARATE DUMPSTERS AND ONE WAY
TRAFFIC COMING IN FROM THE
NORTH AND OVER TO SOUTH STREET
STATE STREET AND WE'RE REALLY
ONLY REQUIRED WITH THE CURRENT
ZONING DOES NOT REQUIRE ANY
PARKING EXCEPT FOR THE ONE
STAFF PARKING WHICH WE HAVE
THERE NOW.
AND SO THIS OBVIOUSLY MAKES IT
SO NO PARKING IS GOING TO BE
ALLOWED TO BE SPACE FOR
ADDITIONAL PARKING ON THE SITE.
SO THAT WAS THE BIGGEST
CHALLENGE.
WE MANAGED TO FIGURE IT OUT AND
GET IT ALL APPROVED AND THEN WE
ALSO ADDED THE FOURTEEN SPACES
YOU CAN SEE ON THE SITE PLAN
HERE WE HAVE THE NEW SEVEN NEW
BIKE SPACES SPACES WHICH IS THE
COVERED PORTION AND WE ALSO
PROVIDED SEVEN MORE INTERNALLY
WHICH WILL BE IN THE BASEMENT.
I'LL SHOW YOU THAT ON THE PLAN
IN A MINUTE.
SO THE SITE PLAN WAS A LITTLE
BIT OF A CHALLENGE IN THAT AREA
BUT NOT THAT MUCH DIFFERENT
THAN WHAT IT IS TODAY AND THIS
IS THE MAIN FLOOR PLAN.
YOU CAN KIND OF JUST SEE THAT
THOSE SEVEN PARKING SPACES
WHERE WE'RE TALKING THEM IN
THERE AND WE'RE THERE YOU CAN
SEE THE EIGHT DOTS THERE ON THE
BACKSIDE THERE.
I DON'T REALLY HAVE A DO I HAVE
A POINTER ON THIS?
I DON'T KNOW IF I OK, I GUESS I
DON'T NEED ONE.
YOU CAN KIND OF SEE WHAT I'M
TALKING ABOUT THERE.
I AND THEN THIS IS THE BASEMENT
PLAN THAT SHOWS WHERE WE USED A
CLOSET.
THOSE ANGLED THINGS ARE AT THE
TOP OF BICYCLE'S.
WE USE AN INTERNAL CLOSET TO
GET THE SEVEN INTERIOR PARKING
REQUIREMENT AND YOU COME RIGHT
DOWN A STAIR FROM THE OUTSIDE.
IT'S JUST A HALF A FLIGHT
OF STAIRS.
IT GOES RIGHT DOWN INTO THE
BASEMENT SO WORKS OUT QUITE
NICELY.
THAT'S CLOSET REALLY WASN'T
BEING USED FOR ANYTHING
CURRENTLY JUST TO SHOW YOU A
LITTLE BIT INTERNALLY.
SO THIS IS THE EXISTING FIRST
FLOOR PLAN.
YOU CAN SEE ALL THOSE LARGE
STUDY ROOMS SO PRETTY BIG THEN
I'M REALLY NOT BEING UTILIZED
FOR MUCH AND THEN THIS WOULD BE
THE REVISION OF THAT WHERE
WE'RE TAKING THOSE STUDY ROOMS
AND ADDING THE ADDITIONAL BEDS,
PLENTY OF ROOM FOR THEM AND
THEN ALSO ON THE THIRD FLOOR,
SAME KIND OF THING YOU CAN SEE
THE EXISTING PLAN WITH THE
LARGER STUDY SPACES THAT AREN'T
REALLY BEING UTILIZED AND THEN
THIS IS GOING TO BE THE
REVISION WHERE WE ADDED ALL THE
BEDS AND REVISED THINGS
SOMEWHAT TO GET ALL THOSE BEDS
TO WORK PROPERLY AND MAKE NICE
BEDROOMS.
>> THIS IS JUST THE DATA AND
STUFF WE DON'T REALLY NEED TO
TALK ABOUT THAT MUCH.
I THOUGHT I'D THROW IN A FEW
PICTURES OF THE INTERIOR.
IT'S A VERY NICE A LOT
OF WOODWORK HISTORIC BUILDING
STILL LOOKS PRETTY GOOD EVEN
WITH ALL THE PARTIES THAT GO ON
THERE.
THERE MIGHT BE A LITTLE BIT
OF TOUCH UP NEEDED EVERY YEAR
BUT I COULD SEE THERE'S A LOT
OF NICE WORK WORK AND WE'RE
REALLY TRYING TO MAINTAIN A
HISTORIC LOOK GOOD QUALITY LOOK
THE EXTERIOR I WANTED TO SHOW
YOU THIS PICTURE THE SLIDE ON
THE LEFT IS THE WAY I LOOKED AT
THE BEGINNING OF THE SUMMER.
THE FRONT PORCH IT WAS GETTING
A LITTLE DETERIORATED AND SO
AND NOW IT LOOKS LIKE THIS THE
SLIDE ON THE RIGHT WHERE WE HAD
A NICE PORCH AND PATIO AND
REALLY I THINK COMPLIMENTS
OF BUILDING NEW LANDSCAPE.
IT REALLY LOOKS A LOT BETTER
THAN IT WAS.
SO THERE'S A LOT
OF IMPROVEMENTS MADE NOW THESE
PICTURES OF THE AREAS I THE
BACK, THERE'S KIND OF A LOT
OF JUNK SHOWN THERE.
BUT THE ONE ON THE LEFT IS THE
DOOR THAT GOES DOWN INTO THE
BASEMENT WHERE THE PARKING THE
BICYCLE PARKING WOULD BE ON THE
INTERIOR JUST TO THE LEFT THAT
DOOR AND THE EXTERIOR IS WHERE
THE EXTERIOR BICYCLE PARTS
WOULD BE AND THE SLIDE ON THE
RIGHT I'M SHOWING THAT ONE
BECAUSE THE DUMPSTER THAT I WAS
SHOWING THAT WAS KIND OF ON THE
RIGHT HAND SIDE WILL BE UP
AGAINST THAT WALL THERE YOU'RE
SEEING IN THAT WALL IS FACING
SOUTH STATE STREET.
SO WE REALLY ALREADY HAVE AN
EXISTING WALL THAT WILL SCREEN
THE DUMPSTERS SOMEWHAT AND THEN
THE NEW DUMPSTER SCREEN WALL
WILL OBVIOUSLY SCREEN EVEN
MORE.
>> SO YOU REALLY WON'T SEE THE
DUMPSTERS AT ALL AND THAT'S
ABOUT IT.
MY PRESENTATION I JUST WONDERED
IF ANYBODY HAS ANY QUESTIONS.
>> FEEL FREE TO ASK.
>> RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
ALL RIGHT.
I THINK WE'RE GOING TO GO TO
NOW STAFF PRESENTATION PLANNER
THATCHER.
I DON'T REALLY HAVE A LOT TO
ADD.
JUST A COUPLE OF THINGS THE
TRASH RECYCLING AND BIKE
PARKING THAT MR. JARRETT
MENTIONED THE IN THE MOTION IF
THERE'S A CONDITION THAT THEY
BE INSTALLED BY MARCH FOR
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE AND PUBLIC
SERVICES WHICH IS IN CHARGE
OF TRASH PICKUP SAID THAT THEY
MAY REQUIRE A PERFORMANCE BOND
FOR THAT WORK BUT THEY'RE NOT
SURE YET MORE STUDENTS IN THE
HOUSE MEANS MORE SOLID WASTE
GENERATED.
THIS WILL HELP WITH THAT
CONDITION.
LET'S SEE AND THE BIKE PARKING
IS IS A WELCOME ADDITION WHEN
IT GETS TO THE BUILDING PERMIT
STAGE FOR THE FOR THE CLASS B
BYKOV.
THAT'S WHEN WE'LL LOOK AT THE
DESIGN.
IT WASN'T SUBMITTED WITH THIS
SINCE IT WAS A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE BUT IT'LL BE
SOMETHING SIMPLE AND COMPATIBLE
AND I WILL MAKE SURE OF THAT
AND STAFF DOES RECOMMEND THAT
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION MUST BE
APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS.
>> YOU GOT IT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ALL RIGHT.
SO WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO A
PUBLIC HEARING NOW THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR INDIVIDUALS TO
SPEAK UP TO THREE MINUTES ON
THIS ITEM AND WE'LL FIRST HEAR
FROM THOSE WAS PRESENT AND THEN
THE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
REMOTELY PLEASE START ON THE
PHONE OR USE THE RACE HAND
FEATURE IN ZOOM FOR PHONE
ACCESS.
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN ENTER MEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
>> CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY BY
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF THE
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME ON ZOOM
USERS YOU WILL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN
IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE
ENSURE THAT YOU'RE IN A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY BACKGROUND
NOISE FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
COMMENTS AND IS ANYONE PRESENT
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS TIME?
>> ALL RIGHT.
SEEING NONE AS WE HAVE THE
PETITIONERS IN THE ROOM NO
OTHER PARTICIPANTS IS THERE
ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
>> THERE IS NOT OK THANK YOU
MAKE OF THAT TWO MORE SECONDS
OK, GIVE ME ONE SECOND WITH
THAT WE ARE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
THE MOTION.
LET ME I'M GOING TO READ THE
MOTION.
GIVE ME ONE QUICK SECOND.
I HAVE TO PULL THIS UP AS IT'S
NOT ON THIS RIGHT NOW.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO HERE IS THE PROPOSED MOTION.
IT IS AT THE CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION AFTER HEARING ALL
INTERESTED PERSONS AND
REVIEWING ALL RELEVANT
INFORMATION INCLUDING AN
ACCOMPANYING PLAN FINDS THE
PETITION SUBSTANTIALLY MEETING
THE STANDARDS IN CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT TO NINE
POINT FIVE POINT D SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE AND SECTION FIVE
POINT ONE SIX ONE POINT ONE
THAT E FRATERNITY SORORITY AND
STUDENT COOPERATIVE AND
THEREFORE APPROVES THE SEVEN
HUNDRED S SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USED FOR FRATERNITY SORORITY
COOPERATIVE HOUSING AT SEVEN
HUNDRED STATE STREET THIS
APPROVAL BEING BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING FINDINGS PROPOSE USE
WILL BE CONSISTENT WITH THE R
TO BE DISTRICT WHICH WILL ALLOW
SINGLE AND TWO FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL USES AND
FRATERNITIES BY SPECIAL
EXCEPTION PROPOSED USE TO NOT
IMPACT ADVERSELY IMPACT TRAFFIC
PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLISTS,
CIRCULATION OR ROAD
INTERSECTIONS BASED ON THE
LOCATION S C STREET AND MONROE
PROVIDE ACCESS TO THE SITE AND
PROPOSED USES CONSISTENT WITH
THE EXISTING AND SURROUNDING
USES TRAFFIC IMPACT SUBJECT
SITE MEETS A SPECIFIC USER
SPECIFIC STANDARD OF AT LEAST
EIGHTY FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET
OF LOT AREA AND THREE HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET OF LOT AREA PER
OCCUPY.
A SITE PLAN DOCUMENTING THE
EXISTING AND PROPOSED
CONDITIONS OF THE SITE HAS BEEN
SUBMITTED AS A PART OF THE
APPLICATION BEING APPROVED ON
THE FOLLOWING CONDITION.
OCCUPANCY IS LIMITED TO TWENTY
EIGHT PEOPLE A RESIDENT MANAGER
WILL LIVE IN THE BUILDING AND
TRASH RECYCLING BICYCLE
IMPROVEMENTS BICYCLE PARKING
IMPROVEMENTS SHOWING ON THE
SITE PLAN WILL BE INSTALLED BY
MARCH 4TH.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE AND THE
PUBLIC SERVICES DIVISION MAY
REQUIRE A COMPLETION BOND AND
AT THE END OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY APPROVES THE
ATTACH SITE PLAN DATED AUGUST
21ST TWENTY TWENTY FOUR WHICH
DEMONSTRATES A COMPLIANCE WITH
THE APPLICABLE SPECIAL EXCEPT
NEW STANDARDS AS NO DEVELOPMENT
WHICH WOULD HAVE OTHERWISE
REQUIRE SITE APPROVAL HAS BEEN
PROPOSED AND SO WITH THAT WE'RE
GOING TO MOVE INTO DISCUSSION
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER WIRCH,
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MILLS.
WE ARE NOW IN DISCUSSION WITH
COMMISSIONER ELSE.
>> THANK YOU AND I WANT THANK
STAFF FOR THE TABLE AT THE BACK
WITH ALL THE CRITERIA, THE
ASSESSMENT I THOUGHT THAT WAS
REALLY EASY TO FOLLOW FOR THIS
ONE AND THERE ARE IT I
APPRECIATE THE LINKS TO LIKE
WHERE A LOT OF THOSE THINGS ARE
COMING FROM BECAUSE THERE'S
THERE'S A LOT OF ADDITIONAL
CONSIDERATIONS THIS SPECIAL
USE.
>> SO THANK YOU FOR THAT BY THE
STAFF REPORT EFFECTIVELY SAYS
IT COMPLIES LIKE THE NUMBER
OF OCCUPANTS COMPLIES WITH THE
STANDARD AND THEN IT ALSO
REFERENCES THE HOUSING CODE AND
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S
DIFFERENT THAN THE BUILDING
CODE BUT I KNOW THE BUILDING
CODE ALSO HAS OCCUPANCY LIMITS
.
SO I'M CURIOUS WHAT THE STAFF
REPORT SAYS IT COMPLIES WITH
THAT.
BUT I'M CURIOUS LIKE WHAT THE
HOUSING CODE OR BUILDING
CODE WOULD ALLOW LIKE WHAT'S
THE MAX
THAT WOULD BE ALLOWED
HERE?
>> SO I ASKED YOUR QUESTION TO
A COUPLE OF DIFFERENT PEOPLE,
OK, AND WHEN A DESIGN
PROFESSIONAL SUBMITS PLANS FOR
A RENTAL PROPERTY LIKE A
FRATERNITY, THEY ASK FOR A
CERTAIN NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS IN
THIS CASE.
TWENTY EIGHT.
THEN WHICHEVER DEPARTMENT IS
REVIEWING IT WILL WILL LOOK AT
THE PLANS THAT ARE SUBMITTED
AND COMPARE IT TO THE NUMBER
TWENTY EIGHT.
THEY NEVER SAY LIKE YOU COULD
FIT THIRTY FIVE IN HERE BUT
YOU'RE ONLY ASKING FOR TWENTY
EIGHT BECAUSE THEY'RE ASKING
FOR TWENTY EIGHT.
SO THEY SAID THAT THERE COULD
BE CASES WHERE SIX MONTHS LATER
THEY MIGHT WANT TO SPLIT SOME
MORE ROOMS AND YOU KNOW PUT
SOME MORE PEOPLE IN THE
BUILDING IN WHICH CASE THEY
WOULD JUST LOOK AT THE NEW
DESIGN PROFESSIONAL DRAWINGS
AND DETERMINE BASED ON THE NEW
DRAWINGS WHETHER THEY HAD
ENOUGH SPACE AND BATHROOMS AND
EGRESS AND KITCHENS AND THINGS
LIKE THAT TO SUPPORT THE NEW
NUMBER OF PEOPLE BEING
REQUESTED.
SO I WAS KIND OF HOPING THEY
JUST SAY YEAH, THERE'S A NO
HERE'S THE MULTIPLIER.
>> YEAH, BUT THERE'S THAT OK,
BECAUSE FROM MY PERSPECTIVE I
WOULD RATHER PROVIDE WIGGLE
ROOM TO ALLOW FOR THIS AND THAT
THAT THE ELEMENT WITHIN OUR
CODE THAT SEEMS TO LIMIT IT IS
THE ONE THAT IS JUST AND I HAVE
IT UP BASED ON THREE HUNDRED
AND FIFTY SQUARE FEET OF WHAT
AREA PER OCCUPANT.
>> YEAH THAT'S OUR ZONING
LIMITATION.
>> THAT'S THE ZONING LIMITATION
EXACTLY.
YES.
SO HERE'S THE HERE'S MAYBE THIS
IS THE FOLLOWING QUESTION BASED
ON THAT AND AT LEAST WHAT I CAN
FIND FROM THE TAX RECORDS THE
SLIGHT IS POINT FOUR ACRES IS
THAT SAME RATE I AND GOOGLE
TELLS ME THAT THAT SEVENTEEN
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET ISH AND SO
THE MAX BY ZONING WOULD BE
FORTY NINE OCCUPANTS.
I'M CURIOUS WHAT THE
IMPLICATION IS IF WE ALLOW A
SPECIAL LAND USE A GUIDE NOT
THE SITE PLAN BECAUSE FLIGHT
PLAN IS ONLY FOR THEIR TWENTY
EIGHT BUT ALLOW THE SPECIAL
LAND USE TO GO UP TO FORTY NINE
IF THEY WANT TO CHANGE INTERIOR
AGAIN PRESUMABLY THAT GOES
THROUGH.
SO I'M JUST CURIOUS WHAT THE
IMPLICATION WOULD BE TO ALLOW
THEM THAT FLEXIBILITY IN THE
FUTURE SO THEY CAN DO WHATEVER
THEY NEED TO WITH BUILDING BUT
THEY DON'T NECESSARILY HAVE TO
COME BACK TO THE PLANNING.
YES THAT CAN BE DONE AND HAS
BEEN DONE IN THE PAST.
SO THERE'S NOT LIKE A WE'RE NOT
GOING TO CAUSE A HEALTH AND
SAFETY CONUNDRUM.
>> NO.
IF WE AMEND IT TO BE THE MATTER
AND RENTAL ARE STILL GOING TO
LOOK AT IT AND SAY, YOU KNOW,
YES OR NO YOU DON'T MEET THE
REQUIREMENTS.
THE CODE REQUIRES BUILDING
CODE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE
NUMBER YOU KNOW THAT YOU'RE
ASKING FOR OR YOU DO MEET OK,
YEAH THAT HAPPENS A LOT IN
SCHOOLS AND DAYCARES LIKE
THEY'LL SAY OK, WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE 300 KIDS IN THE SCHOOL AND
WE SAY OK, WHAT ABOUT 350?
DO YOU THINK YOU'LL EVER GET
THREE AND FIFTY YOU MIGHT
SOMEDAY OK THE NEXT FOR THREE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY YOU EVEN
THOUGH WHAT YOU'RE SHOWING IS
THE THREE HUNDRED ON YOUR SITE
PLAN AND SO THEY'RE GOING TO
EVALUATE IT FOR THAT.
OK SO I'LL JUST SAY THAT I'M
INCLINED TO INCREASE THE NUMBER
OF OCCUPANTS TO FORTY NINE
WHICH IS BECAUSE MY MATH
EFFECTIVELY SHOWS FORTY NINE
POINT SEVEN PEOPLE AND YOU
CAN'T POINT SEVEN PEOPLE SO
THAT'S FORTY EIGHT OR SOMETHING
LIKE I THINK WE SHOULD INCREASE
THIS SO COMMISSIONER APRON'S
THIS IS A MAYBE VALUE NEUTRAL
OBSERVATION BUT I'M WONDERING
ABOUT THE FACT THAT THIS WAS
NOTICED AS A PUBLIC HEARING FOR
TWENTY EIGHT PEOPLE AND IF IT
HAD SAID FORTY NINE PEOPLE
WHETHER THAT WOULD HAVE YIELDED
A DIFFERENT QUANTITY OF PUBLIC
ATTENTION.
SO I DON'T KNOW OR I'M
WONDERING LIKE IN THE SCHOOL
AND DAYCARE EXAMPLES I THINK
WE'VE HAD THIS HAPPEN TO US
TOO.
IT'S LIKE BEFORE IT REACHES
THIS POINT IS WHEN THAT HAPPENS
IT'S WHEN PEOPLE COME IN FOR A
PRE PARTY OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT I DON'T KNOW.
>> I'M JUST OBSERVING THAT
NOTICING THAT I THINK THAT'S A
GOOD OBSERVATION.
I'D LIKE TO ASK THE PETITIONER
FROM THE ARCHITECTS POINT
OF VIEW IF YOU GUYS CONSIDERED
INCREASING WHAT WE'RE LOOKING
TO DO IS TO SAY HEY, WE WANT TO
CREATE A MECHANISM BY WHICH YOU
MAY NOT HAVE TO COME BACK TO
ASK FOR ANOTHER PROCEDURAL
ABOUT SOME OF THE DEPARTMENTS
HAVE REVIEWED THIS FOR TWENTY
EIGHT IF YOU COULD COME UP IF
YOU COULD COME AND TALK INTO
THE MIKE OTHERWISE YOU WON'T
PICK IT UP.
YEAH I KNOW YOU'RE FINE WITH
WONDERING ABOUT SOME OF THE
OTHER DISCIPLINES AND SO FORTH.
I REVIEWED THIS FOR THE SHOW
YOU LIKE ESPECIALLY SOLID WASTE
I'M THINKING ABOUT BECAUSE IT
WAS A CHALLENGE TO BE ABLE TO
GET THAT IN THERE FOR TWENTY
EIGHTEEN AND IF WE HAD ANOTHER
20 ARE THERE GOING TO REQUIRE
LARGER DUMPSTERS AND I MEAN IT
JUST SEEMS LIKE WE WOULD
PROBABLY WOULD HAVE WANTED TO
REVIEW THAT FROM THE BEGINNING
BECAUSE THE OTHER DEPARTMENTS
MAY NOT NECESSARILY AGREE WITH
THAT.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU YEAH THIS
WOULDN'T NECESSARILY MEAN YOU
COULD IMMEDIATELY HAVE FORTY
OCCUPANTS YOU WOULD STILL NEED
TO GET A CERTIFICATE
OF OCCUPANCY FOR ANY NUMBER
OVER TWENTY EIGHT AND THAT
WOULD REQUIRE FLOOR PLANS AND
DESIGN PLANS AND LET'S SAY YOU
FOUND THEM FOR TWO OR FOUR MORE
STUDENTS THEN YOU WOULDN'T HAVE
TO COME BACK TO US TO CHANGE
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION AGAIN
BECAUSE YOU'D MAX OUT TROUVILLE
.
WOULDN'T MIND THAT MR ABRAMS
POINT IS A GOOD ONE THOUGH AND
I DON'T VIEW FROM THEY MIGHT
WANT TO DOUBLE IT AGAIN.
>> WHO KNOWS?
YEAH NO THEY WERE ONLY LOOKING
TO TRY TO MAKE IT SO THAT YOU
HAVE SOME FLEXIBILITY AND THAT
YOU DON'T HAVE TO GO THROUGH A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION JUST TO
INCREASE THE OCCUPANTS OF THE
BUILDING AND BUILDING PERMITS
WILL STILL COVER FOR PROVED AT
THAT POINT.
YEAH I MEAN WHEN WE ACTUALLY
SUBMIT THOSE FOR BUILDING
PERMIT I SUPPOSE WE COULD EVEN
INCREASE IT A LITTLE BIT ON THE
PLANS FOR THAT.
I MEAN WE SEE WHAT OCCUPANCY WE
WANT IF WE WANTED TO THROW A
COUPLE MORE BEDS IN THERE JUST
TO MAKE SURE WE HAVE SPACE FOR
IT OR WHATEVER RIGHT.
THAT BEING SAID, I DO BELIEVE
COMMISSIONER APRON'S POINT IS
ALSO A VALID ONE ABOUT PUBLIC
NOTICING BECAUSE IT IS NOTICES
TWENTY EIGHT SO I DON'T KNOW IF
THAT'S SOMETHING WE COULD GET
CLOSE TO THAT RIGHT NOW.
OK OK THANK YOU.
>> I WOULD LOOK THE STAFF FOR
SOME GUIDANCE ON THAT BUT TO ME
THE PUBLIC NOTICE IS ACTUALLY A
FAIRLY IMPORTANT ONE WHICH
WOULD BE THAT THIS WOULD
ACTUALLY BE DELAYED IF WE WERE
TO ESPECIALLY AS A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE SINCE THE WHOLE
POINT IS TO NOTIFY THE
NEIGHBORHOOD OF SO THEY HAVE
SOME REASONABLE EXPECTATIONS
LIKE EVEN THE SIGN THAT WE
POSTED FRONT INCREASED TO
TWENTY EIGHT OCCUPANCY.
SURE.
OH COMMISSIONER NOTED THAT
PROFESSOR.
>> WELL SO THAT BEGS THE
QUESTION WOULD YOU RATHER
PROCEED NOW AT 28 OR DO YOU
WANT TO TABLE THIS AND GO BACK
AND THINK ABOUT HOW MANY MORE
YOU MIGHT CONCEIVABLY OUT IN
THE FUTURE BECAUSE IT'S CAUSING
COMPLICATIONS INCREASE FINANCES
AS I LOOK AT YOUR PLANS AS FIRE
REVIEW.
YEAH, I THINK WILL COME INTO
PLAY AS I LOOK AT THE PLANS I
DON'T SEE HOW YOU FIT IN
ANOTHER 40 YEARS.
ANOTHER TIME YOU COULD GO WITH
BUMPURS A WHAT YOU SEE IN PLACE
W BUT COULD I ASK I'M JUST
CURIOUS WHERE IS THE RESIDENT
MANAGER IN ALL OF THESE ROOMS?
WHERE DOES THAT PERSON STAY.
THERE ISN'T OUR RESIDENT
MANAGER I THOUGHT THAT WAS ONE
OF THE THAT LIVES I SHOULDN'T
SAY THAT THERE IS A RESIDENT
MANAGER HE'S A LOCAL RESIDENT
IN ANN ARBOR AND HE VISITS THE
SITE.
I'M SORRY RICK CAN YOU COME UP
TO THE PODIUM?
SO I HAVE AN ALUMNI THAT LIVES
IN THE ANN ARBOR AREA AND HE
MAKES PERIODIC VISITS WITH THE
ALUMNI OR THE ACTIVE WITH THEIR
PRESIDENT OR VICE PRESIDENT.
THE TREASURER AND THOSE TO MAKE
SURE THAT EVERYTHING IS GOING
AS PLANNED.
SO BUT HE DOES NOT HAVE ON SITE
OK, ONE OF THE CONDITIONS IS
THAT A RESIDENT MANAGER LIVE IN
THE BUILDING GATE PLEASE OUR
PAINTED THATCHER IS THERE A
STUDENT WHO IS LIKE THE
APPOINTED HOUSE MANAGER?
>> YES.
WHO LIVES IN THE HOUSE?
YEAH.
THERE IS A HOUSE MANAGER OK.
>> IT TAKES HIS COMMUNICATION.
I CONTACT YOU AND OTHERS WHEN
THINGS ARE NEEDED AND YEAH,
HE'S RESPONSIBLE FOR EVERYTHING
OVERALL I THINK I THINK THAT
THAT'S ACCEPTABLE BECAUSE I'VE
HEARD THAT IN THE PAST AS LONG
AS THERE'S SOMEONE IN THE HOUSE
WHO'S DESIGNATED AS THE HOUSE
MANAGER OR THE RESIDENT MANAGER
I'VE GOT A MR ADAMS RIGHT.
BUT IT'S IN THE CODE IT SAYS
AND THIS IS IN OH BOY WHERE ARE
WE?
UM FIVE SIXTEEN ONE HUNDRED
FRATERNITIES SORORITIES STUDENT
COOPERATIVE STUDENT
CO-OPERATIVE HOUSING ARE TO BE
MULTIPLE FAMILIES OWNING
DISTRICTS.
THE RESIDENT MANAGER SHALL BE
EMPLOYED OR APPOINTED FOR
PURPOSES OF THE SECTION OR
RESIDENT MANAGERS ONE WHO LIVES
ON SITE SERVING ANY REGULAR OR
FULL TIME CAPACITY.
IS THIS PERSON SERVING IN A
FULL TIME CAPACITY AS A STUDENT
?
CORRECT.
IT'S AN APPOINTED POSITION AND
HE'S RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL THE
ACTIVITIES.
YOU SORT OF UNDERSTAND THE
QUESTION, RIGHT?
IT'S THAT'S NOT A FULL TIME
CAPACITY.
>> HE'S A FULL TIME STUDENT,
RIGHT?
I MEAN IT'S YEAH.
THAT'S THAT'S HIS JOB AND
THAT'S BUT HE'S ALSO A STUDENT
GOT HIM MISS THATCHER, JUST A
QUICK QUESTION.
SO IF WE PERSIST WITH THAT
SPECIFIC CONDITION, WHAT IS
COMPLIANCE LOOK LIKE AND REVIEW
OF COMPLIANCE?
WELL, WHEN THE BUILDING PERMIT
APPLICATIONS COME THROUGH WE
WILL LOOK TO MAKE SURE THAT
THERE IS A PLACE FOR THE
RESIDENT MANAGER TO LIVE ON
SITE.
GOT IT.
I PRESUME THAT THAT WAS THE BIG
ROOM THAT HAD THE BIGGER BED
AND THE STUDY
ROOM NEXT TO IT.
>> THERE IS A ROOM THAT HAS A
SHOWER AND A EXACTLY BATHROOM.
YEAH, IT'S KIND OF DESIGNATED
AS WHAT WOULD BE THE RESIDENT
MANAGER LOCATION IF WE BROUGHT,
YOU KNOW, ALUMNI AND OR
SOMEBODY THAT QUITE HONESTLY NO
ONE IS GOING TO KNOCK ON THE
DOOR AND SAY MAY I SPEAK TO THE
RESIDENT MANAGER?
>> YEAH.
YEAH RIGHT.
UNDERSTOOD.
>> RIGHT.
THANK YOU, SIR.
ALL RIGHT.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COMMENTS?
>> COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE ON A
DIFFERENT TOPIC?
OK, YEAH.
SO I I THINK THIS MIGHT HAVE
BEEN ANSWERED BY THE CHANGE
OF TRAFFIC BUT RIGHT NOW IF YOU
GO BY THAT LOCATION, THE CURB
CUT ON BANRO IS BASICALLY HALF
THE SIZE OF WHAT IS BEING USED
AS THE CURB.
>> SO IT LOOKS LIKE CARS ARE
JUST COMING OVER THE CURB
BECAUSE THERE'S PARKING ON ONE
SIDE AND THEN CARS ARE JUST
DRIVING OVER THE CURB BECAUSE
IT'S NOT WIDE ENOUGH.
SO THAT IS AND IT LOOKS LIKE
THE THE PROPOSED PLAN THAT
EXISTS AT THE DRIVEWAY IS SORT
OF TWICE AS WIDE AS THE CURB
CUT.
AND I'M JUST WONDERING IF I
DON'T KNOW IF THIS IS FOR STAFF
OR THE PETITIONER OR BUT THAT
SEEMS SOMEWHAT PROBLEMATIC
THAT
THE THAT IS NOT BIG ENOUGH OR
IS BEING USED INAPPROPRIATELY.
>> YEAH.
YEAH.
SO IT WAS REVIEWED BY
ENGINEERING WHO GAVE THE
EXISTING CURB CUT THE THUMBS UP
MOSTLY YOU KNOW TRUCKS IN MIND
TO GO IN AND OUT OF THERE.
I MEAN IF IF IF THERE WERE
PARKING WHERE THAT NO PARKING
SIGN INDICATED ON THE PLAN SAID
YOU KNOW THAT COULD BE
SOMETHING THAT COULD BE
ENFORCED.
IT'S PRETTY HARD TO ENFORCE
STUDENTS JUMPING CURBS AND
MAKING A BLOODY MESS.
RIGHT.
I'M SORT OF MORE CONCERNED
ABOUT THAT PEDESTRIANS AND
TRAFFIC ALONG THERE AS PEOPLE
ARE ZIPPING IN AND WHAT IT'S
SUPPOSED TO BE A ONE WAY BUT
THEY'RE GOING OUT THE YEAH.
THE OTHER DIRECTION NOW WITH
THE TRAFFIC FLOW BEING
DIFFERENT AND SUPPOSEDLY NO
PARKING ON THAT ONE SIDE.
BUT THAT'S JUST I DON'T REALLY
KNOW WHAT TO DO ABOUT IT BUT I
JUST NOTICED THAT IT IS YEAH IT
IS CURRENTLY YES.
NO ONE PARKING SPACE IS SHOWN
THERE BECAUSE ALL DRIVEWAYS
MUST LEAD TO A LEGAL PARKING
SPACE.
YES.
OR IT MIGHT NOT HAVE ANY YOU
KNOW THAT ONE IS JUST SORT
OF SQUEEZED IN THERE AROUND THE
PATH OF THE TRUCKS IN ORDER TO
MAKE IT ALLOWABLE TO HAVE A
DRIVE WITH I MEAN IT WILL BE
NICE TO HAVE THE DUMPSTER NOT
JUST A BIG PILE OF JUNK IN THE
CORNER.
SO I GUESS THAT'S BUT YEAH, IF
THERE'S NO I MEAN I DON'T KNOW
IF THERE'S NO ROOM BUT WE COULD
REPORT IT IF THEY'RE YES.
OK YEAH I JUST WALK BY THERE A
LOT SO YEAH.
>> ESPECIALLY IF YOU SEE CARS
GOING THE WRONG WAY RIGHT
BECAUSE THAT WOULD BE A DOUBLE
YEAH.
NOT ONLY WOULD THEY BE GOING
OVER THE CURB BUT THEY'D BE
GOING THE WRONG WAY.
YEAH GOT IT.
>> HOW MANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
THANK YOU FIRST OF ALL THANK
YOU FOR BRINGING US TEN MORE
BEDS TO PUT STUDENTS IN A CITY
THAT HAS A HOUSING CRISIS.
I JUST HAVE A QUICK QUESTION
ABOUT THE PLACEMENT BICYCLE
PARKING IT SAYS IT'S DOWN JUST
A SHORT FLIGHT OF STEPS.
>> ARE YOU PLANNING ANY SORT
OF BICYCLE GUIDE RAMP THING TO
MAKE IT REALLY EASY FOR PEOPLE
TO ACTUALLY GET THEIR BIKE UP
AND DOWN SO THAT WE MAKE SURE
THEY USE THOSE SPACES?
>> AND IF NOT, WILL YOU?
OH, WELL THAT'S THE I DON'T
KNOW IF THE STAIR WOULD REALLY
BE WIDE ENOUGH TO DO THAT AND
IT IS A HALF A FLIGHT
OF STAIRS.
SO IT SEEMS LIKE IT'S PRETTY
EASY TO WHEN YOU'RE CARRYING
YOUR BIKE TO GO DOWN A FEW
STEPS.
>> I DON'T KNOW.
I MEAN YEAH I DON'T KNOW MAYBE
MAYBE NOT.
THE MORE BARRIERS YOU PUT ON
SOMETHING THE LESS LIKELY IT IS
FOR PEOPLE TO ACTUALLY HAVE YOU
SEEN THAT WHERE THERE'S LIKE A
LITTLE LIKE A RAMP YOU CAN
ATTACH.
>> YEAH.
OR SOMETHING.
OH YEAH THERE'S JUST LIKE
LITTLE METAL RAMPS AND SO LIKE
THE BIKE GOES DOWN THAT THE
WHEELS GO DOWN AND THEN YOU
WALK DOWN THE STAIRS WITH IT
THAT WOULD HAVE TO BE IN QUITE
A WAYS CRAFTIER WHEN I SAW THAT
HANDLEBARS CLEAR UM I DON'T IT
DEPENDS ON HOW THIS I DON'T
KNOW HOW THE STAIRS ARE LIKE
WHERE IT'S THE BUILDING BUT YES
.
>> YEAH.
SO YOU MIGHT ONLY END UP WITH
LIKE YOU THOSE STAIRS ARE VERY
WIDE.
>> THEY'RE JUST TAKE A LOOK
HERE SEE THOSE STAIRS ARE
REALLY ONLY ABOUT WHAT ARE THEY
ABOUT THREE FEET SO SO IF YOU
HAD A REAL DOWN THE DENHA ONE
SIDE OF THAT THE STAIR BECOMES
KIND OF FUNCTIONAL FOR
EMERGENCY PEOPLE SOME PEOPLE
USE SO I DON'T THINK THAT WOULD
WORK AND WE WERE KIND
OF THINKING SINCE IT'S A HALF
FLIGHT OF STAIRS I MEAN I COULD
I UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU'RE SAYING
IF YOU'RE GOING UP LIKE A
PRETTY TALL FLIGHT OF STAIRS
BUT I MEAN IT'S KIND OF SIMILAR
WHEN YOU'RE OUT SIDE SOMEWHERE
AND YOU MIGHT HIT SOME STUFF ON
A SIDEWALK.
YOU MIGHT HAVE TO GET OFF YOUR
BIKE THEN WALK UP.
YEAH.
CARRYING YOUR BIKE.
>> WELL IF THERE'S SPACE JUST
LOOK INTO IT.
I GUESS I'M ASKING IT'S ALSO A
REALLY GOOD IDEA.
YEAH.
JUST DON'T KNOW IF IT WOULD FIT
IN THIS CASE BUT I THINK YOU
SURE AND NOT TO HARP TOO MUCH
ON THIS LIKE RESIDENT MANAGER
THING THAT IS SO CONFUSING ME
THAT I'LL JUST A FRIEND OF MINE
IN COLLEGE WAS LIKE A GRAD
STUDENT AND HE WAS IN A
FRATERNITY AND LIKE HE LIVED
THERE AS THE RESIDENT MANAGER.
SO I THINK THAT IS PRETTY
COMMON TO HAVE STUDENTS LIKE
ACT IN THAT CAPACITY.
>> SO WHILE THIS IS KIND
OF CONFUSING BECAUSE IT SOUNDS
LIKE THEY HAVE A RESIDENT
MANAGER AND HOUSE MANAGER AND
THIS IS THE LANGUAGE IN OUR
CODE I THINK IT'S PROBABLY FINE
.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER MILLS A
LOT I'M LOOKING CLOSER AT THIS
FLOORPLAN IS AM I READING THIS
RIGHT THAT THE ENTRANCE WHERE
YOU'RE SAYING IS THE HALF-LIGHT
IS THIS GOING INTO THE
MECHANICAL ROOM?
NO.
WELL, YOU KNOW, IT'S KIND
OF HARD TO SEE ON THAT DRAWING
THERE IT GOES ONTO A LANDING.
IF I COULD POINT IF YOU LOOK AT
THIS DRAWING THE RIGHT IN THE
CENTER KIND OF THE CENTER ISSUE
WITH A DOOR GOES ONTO THE
LANDING OF A STAIR THAT GOES TO
DIFFERENT DIRECTIONS.
YEAH, WELL ONE DIRECTION WOULD
BE UP AND THEN YEAH WAVE ONE
DIRECTION WOULD BE DOWN AND
THEN THE OTHER TO THE RIGHT
GOES TO THE MAIN AREA MAIN
FLOOR OK AND THEN SO WHERE IT
GOES DOWN IT COMES DOWN THERE
RIGHT ACROSS FROM THE BIKE AREA
YOU'RE RIGHT YOU'RE GOING ONTO
TO A LANDING AND THEN DOWN AND
SO IT'S NOT A FULL FLIGHT
OF STAIRS SO IT'S TWO 1/2
LIGHTS ROUGHLY ROUGHLY AND THIS
BUT THE STAIRWAY THAT WE'RE
ACTUALLY TALKING ABOUT IS
INTERIOR OF THE BUILDING.
>> YES.
IT'S NOT EXTERIOR RIGHT UNDER
THE LANDING FIRST SO YOU HAVE
TO CARRY YOUR BIKE TO THAT
LANDING AREA THERE FIRST AND
THEN DOWN THE STAIRS.
>> YEAH.
SO THIS IS ONE WHERE IT SEEMS
THAT I MEAN IT IS IT'S
PROVIDING SPACE BUT I JUST
DON'T THINK IT WILL BE USED
IT'S NOT IDEAL.
>> YEAH.
AND SO YEAH OK THANK YOU FOR
HELPING ME UNDERSTAND.
>> OK GOT IT COMMISSIONER.
>> SO I'M SORT OF REASONABLY
SATISFIED THAT THIS RESIDENT
MANAGER SERVES ON A REGULAR
CAPACITY BUT I DID HAVE ONE
OTHER QUESTION THIS THE
DEFINITION OF FRATERNITY IN THE
CODE REQUIRES AN AFFILIATION
WITH THE UNIVERSITY.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
THIS FRATERNITY AFFILIATION
WITH THE AFC OR SOME OTHER
ACCREDITED KNOW ASSOCIATION
WITHIN THE UNIVERSITY
FRATERNITY STRUCTURE IS STILL
GOOD AND INTACT.
>> THEY'RE PART OF I'M NOT SURE
THE NAME OF THE GREEK
ASSOCIATION BUT THEY'RE A
MEMBER OF THAT AND THEY HAVE
ONE OF THE HIGHEST GPA IS
OF ALL THE FRATERNITIES THAT
ARE ASSOCIATED WITH IT.
THANKS.
GOT IT.
GREAT COUNCIL MEMBER S YEAH.
COUNCIL MEMBER HAMMERSCHMIDT
I'M VERY GLAD YOU BROUGHT UP
THE BIKE THING.
>> DID I REMEMBER YOU?
OH, IT'S A DREAM.
IT'S A FANTASY IDEAL.
>> YEAH.
>> I MEAN AND HOW STEEP IS THAT
STAIRCASE.
WELL BUT THREE STEPS THAT ARE
LIKE THIS WHERE THREE STEPS
THAT ARE GENTLE BECAUSE YOU
KNOW HOW IT IS TO CARRY A BIKE
DOWN A STEEP.
>> OK, SO DO WE NEED TO ASK FOR
MORE BIKE PARKING THAT IS
COVERED THAT IS OUTSIDE GIVEN
THAT THESE FOLKS ARE NOT GOING
TO BE ABLE TO HAVE CARS, THERE
IS NO PLACE FOR THEM TO PARK
THEM.
>> UM, IT'S A QUESTION BESIDES
THAT I DID WANT TO NOTE THAT
YES.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
BRINGING US MORE BEDS IN
PROXIMITY TO CAMPUS WHICH IS
CONSISTENT WITH THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
COMPATIBLE WITH THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND MOREOVER THE
USE OF THIS BUILDING AS A
FRATERNITY IS CONSISTENT WITH
THE NEIGHBORHOOD MAKING SURE
THAT THE ADDITION OF TEN PEOPLE
AT THOSE PARTIES DOES IT MEAN
LOTS OF CUPS ON THE FRONT LAWN
BECAUSE BEING RIGHT ACROSS FROM
THE LAW SCHOOL AND WHERE ALL
THOSE STUDENT TOURS
WALK BY
EVERY DAY, THAT'S NOT THE FACE
THAT WE WANT TO PRESENT.
SO THAT RESIDENT MANAGER NEEDS
TO MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE NOT
GETTING ANY TRASH COMPLAINTS.
SO AND OF COURSE THIS PROPOSAL
WILL NOT AFFECT ANY NATURAL
FEATURES BECAUSE YOU'RE JUST
LOOKING ON INSIDE SO I'M
APPRECIATING ALL THE THINGS
THAT YOU ARE BRINGING.
I I REALLY WOULD LIKE TO MAKE
THE BIKE PARKING MORE PRACTICAL
.
I AM NOT SOMEONE WHO CAN CARRY
A BICYCLE UP THE STAIRS AND I'M
ACTUALLY PRETTY FIT FOR MY AGE
SO IT WOULD BE NICE TO PROVIDE
SOMETHING THAT'S USABLE FOR THE
STUDENTS ALTHOUGH IF YOU HAVE
DATA THAT YOU WANT TO TELL ME
THAT YOUR CURRENT BIKE PARKING
IS NOT EVEN FULL AND THAT THE
STUDENTS AREN'T USING THE SPACE
THAT'S PROVIDED THEM THAT COULD
MITIGATE THE CONCERNS THAT ARE
I THINK THE REASONABLE CONCERNS
THAT ARE BEING RAISED AT THE
TABLE.
>> SURE.
I'M WONDERING IF THE PETITIONER
WANTS TO RESPOND.
I THINK TO SUMMARIZE THERE'S A
LITTLE BIT OF CONCERN THAT THE
SEVEN BIKE PARKING SPACES IN
THE BASEMENT AREA WOULD NOT BE
UTILIZED AND IS REALLY BEING
PUT FORTH IS SOMEWHAT
PLACATING.
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S THE
RIGHT TERMINOLOGY BUT BUT THAT
IT SEEMS TO BE MORE FOR SHOW
ACTUAL UTILIZATION.
>> I'VE WORKED AS THE
FRATERNITY OWNER'S
REPRESENTATIVE FOR THE LAST
TWELVE YEARS SO I SEEN A LOT
OF KIDS COME AND GO AND I'VE
NEVER SEEN MORE THAN TWO
BICYCLES ON SITE OVER THOSE
LAST TWELVE YEARS.
THEY JUST THERE'S A BUS STOP
RIGHT THERE THAT'S VERY HANDY.
LESS THAN HALF OF THE KIDS HAVE
VEHICLES ON SITE SO THEY EITHER
WALK OR THEY TAKE A BUS AND
THEY DON'T USE BIKES.
I DON'T KNOW WHY BUT SO THAT'S
WHAT I'VE SEEN.
>> GOT IT.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER.
SO MAYBE THIS IS FOR STAFF
PLANNER HATCHER SINCE THE
PROJECT REQUIRE FOURTEEN AND IT
IS OUR DETERMINATION THAT THE
SEVEN THAT ARE INTERIOR AREN'T
GOING TO BE UTILIZED.
>> CAN WE MAKE THAT
DETERMINATION BASED ON THIS
SITE PLAN THAT THESE SEVEN ARE
NOT GOING TO BE UTILIZED BUT IF
THEY DEDICATED IT MEETS THE
CRITERIA I GUESS IS WHAT I'M
ASKING SO THEY DRAW IT IN AND
SAY THIS IS WHERE THESE SEVEN
WILL GO BUT NO ONE CAN ACCESS
IT AND NO ONE USES IT.
DOES IT STILL MEET THE
REQUIREMENT?
MAYBE THAT'S MY QUESTION.
THAT'S A VALUE JUDGMENT TO SAY
THAT NO ONE WILL USE IT GRADED
IS THERE AND AVAILABLE.
SO OK, I'M OK.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
YES COMMISSIONER GORDON I GUESS
I WANT TO SPEAK TO THIS.
I'M PRETTY SURE IF IT'S AN
ENCLOSED SPACE AND PEOPLE ARE
BUYCKS AND THESE ARE COLLEGE
STUDENTS AND IF YOU CAN FIND A
WAY TO PUT A LITTLE METAL
AROUND THAT DOESN'T TAKE UP
MUCH SPACE BUT HELPS GET IT
DOWN THE STAIRS, I THINK IT
WOULD PROBABLY BE USED MAYBE
NOT BY SEVEN CYCLISTS BUT I
KNOW IF I HAD A BIKE AND I
WANTED IT OUT OF THE WEATHER I
LIKE IT DOWN THOSE STAIRS TO DO
THAT SO I'M NOT CONVINCED THAT
BECAUSE IT'S A LITTLE BIT
INCONVENIENT IT'S NOT GOING TO
BE USED IN A FRATERNITY HOUSE.
I THINK IT'S REASONABLE.
IT'S REASONABLE THAT SPACE.
>> GOT IT.
THANK YOU.
YES.
ALSO LOOKING AT TRENDS IT LOOKS
LIKE A LOT OF THEM RIGHT
MOPEDS.
I'LL BE PERFECTLY HONEST ABOUT
ALL OF THAT SAID ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS WITH THOUGHTS ON
THIS PARTICULAR SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE THE WORD I WOULD
URGE YOU TO THE I THINK YOU CAN
FIND A REAL THAT WOULD MAKE IT
A LOT EASIER TO GO TO LIKE UP
AND DOWN STAIRS.
THEY WON'T TAKE MUCH OF THE
STAIRS.
OH LOOK INTO YEAH I THINK
THAT'S A REALLY THAT WOULD ADD
TO IT QUITE A BIT OF COMPROMISE
I THOUGHT WE MIGHT BE ABLE TO
SQUEEZE TWO MORE SPACES ON THE
EXTERIOR ONE SO WE WOULD HAVE
LESS ON DENHA SO MAYBE IF YOU
WANT TO LOOK AT THAT I THINK
THAT CONFIGURATION SEVEN SO WE
COULD GET NINE OF I MEAN IT'S
BETTER TO HAVE AN EVEN NUMBER I
PROBABLY WOULD SAY EIGHT MAYBE
FOUR LUCKY MAYBE WE CAN GET TEN
WHICH WOULD BE FIVE RACKS RIGHT
APPROXIMATELY OR SOMETHING
COVERED I THINK THEY INTENDED
TO EXCEPT GO OUTSIDE AND JUST
ELIMINATE THE INTERIOR.
MAYBE YOU'RE I THINK IT'S
REQUIRED AT FOURTEEN.
YEAH I THINK OUR INTENT IS TO
PROMOTE NON MOTORIZED TRANSIT
TO THE EXTENT THAT IT'S BEING
UTILIZED AND SO IN FRANKLY I
THINK CHANGES AT THIS JUNCTURE
WOULD MEAN THAT THERE WOULD BE
MOST LIKELY AND SO I THINK THAT
IT'S PROBABLY BEST THAT WE JUST
MOVE FORWARD MAYBE FIGURE OUT
HOW TO GET 14 IN THE BEST WAY
THAT'S GOING TO BE YES.
>> YEAH, EXACTLY.
THAT'S OUR AND GET TWO PERCENT
UP WITH THAT SAID, HOW
COMMISSIONER IS CLOSING THE
RAMP THE RAILING THERE LIKE
THIS WIDE THEY'RE REALLY NOT
VERY WIDE AND THEY JUST GO
RIGHT ALONG THE EDGE OF THE
STAIR SO IT'S NOT GOING TO TAKE
UP OH YEAH YEAH JUST GOOGLE OR
SOMETHING SWINK YOU KIND
OF ANGLE IT LOOKS LIKE YOU KIND
OF ANGLE THE BIKE A LITTLE BIT
WHEN YOU'RE GOING TO THE
HANDLEBARS DON'T HIT THE WALL
JUST GOOGLE LIKE STEERS WITH
BIKE RAILING OR TRACK OR
SOMETHING YOU'LL YOU'LL SEE
IT'S PRETTY COMMON NOW I'VE
SEEN THEM IN A LOT OF PLACES.
THANK YOU.
GOT IT.
I THINK FOR ME THE OVERRIDING
THING IS THAT WE'RE ADDING
ADDITIONAL BEDS TO AN AREA THAT
WE HAVE AN IMBALANCE OF HOUSING
TO CURRENT OCCUPANT SO THAT
THAT BEING SAID, I THINK WITH
THAT WE'LL CLOSE DISCUSSION AND
WE WILL MOVE TO A ROLL CALL
VOTE NASTASSIA COMMISSIONER
LEE.
YES, COMMISSIONER.
WHY YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES, COMMISSIONER EVANS.
YES.
THE COUNCIL MEMBER.
YES, COMMISSIONER LS YES.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE YES.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
YES COMMISSIONER NORTEN YES.
>> EMOTION CARRIES THANK YOU
AND GOOD LUCK WITH THE
RENOVATIONS.
WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO MOVE
ON TO OTHER BUSINESS TODAY.
THERE ARE NOT ENOUGH WHICH
MOVES US TO PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE.
WELL, FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT AND REMOTE PARTICIPANTS
AND TO SPEAK REMOTELY PLEASE
PRESS NINE IF YOU'RE ON THE
PHONE OR USE A RAISED HAND
FEATURE IN ZUM FOR PHONE
ACCESS, PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING ID
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
WILL IDENTIFY CALLERS BY THE
LAST THREE THE PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME BY ZOOME YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN
IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK AND
PLEASE ENSURE THAT YOU'RE IN A
QUIET AREA MUTE ANY BACKGROUND
NOISE FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME SEEING NONE?
>> DO WE HAVE ANY MORE CALLERS
WE DO NOT QUITE.
>> WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS.
ARE THERE ANY.
YES.
COMMISSIONER MELS, I WOULD LIKE
TO PROPOSE THAT ON OUR LONG
LIST OF THINGS THAT WE ADDRESS
WHEN WE HAVE TIME WE ADD
THINKING THROUGH ELIMINATION
OF FIVE POINT SIXTEEN POINT ONE
POINT IX NUMBER ONE LETTER E
WHICH IS IN THE C THE
STIPULATION THAT SAYS FOR THE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE FOR
FRATERNITY IT STIPULATES THE
MAXIMUM NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
SHALL BE ESTABLISHED BY THE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE AND ANY
INCREASE IN OCCUPANCY SHALL
REQUIRE A NEW SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE PERMIT.
I FEEL LIKE MAY NOT HAVE HAD TO
COME TO US IF WE DIDN'T HAVE
THAT PART IN THE PROVISION AND
THERE'S OTHER THINGS THAT
REGULATE DENSITY INCLUDING IN
ZONING THAT THEY WOULD HAVE TO
COMPLY WITH AND IN THE BUILDING
CODE .
>> SO AGAIN WE DON'T THAT'S NOT
PROPOSED CHANGE BUT I FEEL LIKE
THAT MIGHT BE ONE THAT WE
SHOULD THINK THROUGH WHAT THE
IF THERE ARE UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCES OF THAT, I THINK
YOU'RE GOING THROUGH EXACTLY
THAT EXERCISE AROUND THE
OFFICE.
SO THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS ALL RIGHT.
SEEING NONE.
I AM GOING TO MOVE TO THE LAST
ITEM ON THIS WHICH IS A GERMAN
MOVE BY COMMISSIONER MILLS
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER WHICH
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I
OPPOSED MEETING ADJOURNED.
>> WOW.
OKAY.
ALL RIGHT.